[snarling]
Beast King Anguish Blast!
Victory!
Popp: What was that?
That could be Dai and Maam...
It's not my concern.
Popp: Not anymore.
It's not my business
whether they live or die.
Masopho: You're still here?
I'm surprised.
[startled grunt]
Wait, you're that Mage from the
fake Hero's party, aren't you?
Name's Masopho.
Hey - you're just looting
the place, aren't you?!
You seem to have a lot
of potential, kid.
Are you sure you wouldn't
like to join us? Come on.
No way, old man!
I am a student
of Avan, the Hero.
I am not some small-town
crook like you guys.
Oh, how very interesting.
So does the famous Avan
make students of people
who abandon their companions?
Masopho: Here. Let me show
you how they're doing.
Popp: Dai...
Old man Brass?
But how?!
[struggling groans]
So you both survived.
D-Dai...
I'll heal you.
[struggling grunt]
No, Maam!
Well, it looks like
they're in trouble.
Masopho: Somebody should
help them, don't you think?
Popp: But, even if I go, what
can I do against Crocodine?
C'mon!
Masopho: "A Hero
is one with courage!"
"And true courage
is not planned for,
nor does true courage depend on
the strength of one's enemies.
It's a choice!"
You like that?
They aren't my words.
They were my master's.
Popp: Your master?
When I was young,
I also trained
to become a Mage
and to fight for
justice like you have.
Masopho: But I
couldn't handle it.
I'd often abandon
my companions
and run away
from the danger.
And just look at me now.
Masopho...
So, hurry on.
Don't give up while
there's a single,
solitary shard of
courage left within you.
Maam: You disgust me!
[surprised gasps]
Popp [thought]:
I am disgusting.
All I ever do is think
of myself and run away...
Popp [thought]:
Master Avan and Dai
always risk it all to fight...
and so will I!
Well, gang...
That kid is toast.
The poor thing.
Nonsense.
He'll be just fine.
You see... That boy
is a student of Avan.
Both: What?!
Avan? You mean
the actual Hero?
He's made out of
different stuff than us.
Masopho: [excited chuckle]
[pained groan]
Crocodine: A Heyedra?
That means...
[chuckle]
Zaboera.
She won't get
in your way now.
Do it, Crocodine
- finish off the boy.
[struggling grunts]
Someone... save Dai...
[pained grunt]
Now, it finally comes to
an end... with this attack!
No, Dai!
Farewell.
Popp: Stop!
[surprised grunt]
It's Popp!
Crocodine: Ah,
the Mage from before.
What could someone like you
possibly do by showing up now?
Begone!
[trembling]
Popp [thought]: Master Avan,
lend me your courage!
One fifth - no
- just one tenth
of what you had
should be enough.
Popp: How dare you!
Crocodine: What?
Popp: I said, how dare you?!
Leave my friends alone.
Now, boy; are you sure you
know what you're saying?
Yes, I am!
I'm saying I'm going to beat
you myself, you dumb lizard!
Maam: Popp, whatever
you're planning,
don't attack that
Lump Shaman! He's...
Popp: I know.
I recognize him!
You captured
him from the island
and turned him
into your servant.
Y-you dirty fiends!
Get Crocodine's
Magic Cylinder!
Popp: Maam!
Go on and run away.
Compared to Dai,
you're nothing more than
a gutless little worm...
But if you leave now,
I will spare you.
No way!
I am never
abandoning my friends.
Master Avan did
not train cowards.
That's right!
Crocodine! Come and
fight me, one on one!
Crocodine: A puny
ant like you...
Popp: I thought I
was a gutless worm.
Don't tell me you're going to
use a hostage against me, too.
You watch it.
Popp: If anyone
here's the worm, it's you.
Crocodine: Very well.
If it's death you seek,
you can go with your
friends to the afterlife!
Listen. Stay out of
this one, Brass. You hear?
Popp [thought]: Good.
Now I can fight without
worrying about him.
Let's see if my
best spell will work.
Here I come!
[roaring]
[worried cry]
Wise to distance yourself.
Because unlike a Hero
or even a Warrior,
Mages are no different
from a normal human physically.
One blow from me will send
you straight to the grave.
Now, you still have a chance,
but it all depends
on whether the spell
you want to cast works!
You're about to see for yourself
whether it works or not.
Kafrizz!
Did it work?
[roaring]
[alarmed gasp]
Crocodine: Even
if you're a worm,
you're certainly
Avan's student.
I didn't expect you'd
be able to cast a Kafrizz!
That said...
I created a shield of
wind with my Vortex Axe,
and avoided a direct hit!
I hope you're ready!
[roaring]
[scared yelp]
[pained groans]
And that's that, boy.
Popp [thought]: It hurts...
so bad! I-I'm done for!
Dai: P-Popp...
Dai: Run, Popp...
Dai...
Popp [thought]:
Don't worry, pal.
I'm not running anymore!
Popp [thought]: And I'm
not giving up, either.
Attacks like these wouldn't
stop you from fighting.
[struggling grunt]
[surprised grunt]
I get knocked down,
but I get up again.
You're never going
to keep me down!
The boy stands?!
Popp [thought]: I'll just
have to sacrifice myself
and do whatever I can!
Maybe I can't bring
it to a stalemate
like Master Avan, but...
Wait... Like
Master Avan? That's it.
I've never pulled it off
before, but I have to try.
[attacking yell]
Ridiculous. Have you
lost your mind?
[agonized groan]
What are you doing?
[straining grunts]
[pained howl]
[chuckle]
[pained yell]
Why do you endure so?
What can you do with
your rod shattered
and your Magic
Power all spent?!
[laughing]
Why are you laughing?
Because that was all
part of my plan.
Shattering my rod and
saving my Magic Power...
Wait, what?
Now watch the legendary spell
my master, Avan, excelled at!
A magic circle?!
Popp: I hereby banish you,
dark forces... Glimmer!
[amazed chirp]
[roaring]
Huh... What?
I did it!
But, how?!
It can't be!
Where am I?
What happened to me?
[alarmed grunt]
He's back.
[noticing grunt]
Popp?
Popp: You were under
the Dark Army's control.
It was a dirty trick
to use you against Dai.
Listen, no matter what, you
can't leave that magic circle!
Use me against Dai? No...
Brass: Did I?!
Curse you!
What is this?!
[chuckling]
Crocodine: You little...
[snarling]
What have you done, boy?
Answer me!
Popp: It's Glimmer.
Popp: The spell creates a magic
circle that repels all evil.
I can't cover an entire
island like Avan can, though.
You fool! What's the point
in saving Brass now?
[frustrated grunt]
[worried yell]
Face it. You used
a major spell,
but it was beyond
your abilities,
and now you're totally spent.
[weak chuckle]
It doesn't matter.
Dai is... Dai is still here.
Dai? So what?
If old man Brass is okay,
then Dai can fight freely...
And he'll take
care of you easily.
He's powerful.
You know that.
Really? You were willing to
sacrifice yourself for him?
Popp: Nothing
quite that noble.
It's not like I
want to die. But...
Unlike you,
I've still got my pride.
And to have to live on after
just abandoning my friends?
As far as I'm concerned,
that wouldn't be much
of a life at all!
Popp [thought]:
Master Avan...
And besides, dear Popp,
I believe that the power
we gain through our training
should always be used to
help others who are in need.
Popp [thought]: Master...
I think I get it now.
I'm sorry it took me so long.
Crocodine [thought]:
This fledging of a boy
is risking his life to fight.
And yet, look at me.
I've abandoned
my pride out of fear
and resorted
to vile treachery.
Is this truly the way?
What is victory worth if
it's at the cost of my pride?
Zaboera: Curses, Crocodine!
Zaboera: What are you doing?!
Finish the boy off, already!
Zaboera: Victory
is finally at hand!
Do you want to lose your seat
as Legion Commander
over feelings of mercy?!
[growling]
Popp, run!
Get out of here!
[weak groan]
I can't even stand up.
Popp: Don't! Stay
inside the magic circle.
Brass: [frustrated grunt]
If you step out of there,
all my energy will
be wasted for nothing.
It's a tiny magic circle,
but it contains
all of my Magic Power.
Yeah, but, Popp...
[distressed chirping]
No, don't! Don't do it!
Forgive me, boy.
[fearful whimper]
[sad chirps]
Stop it! Popp!
What the...
He stands?!
But Dai was all but finished!
And what on earth
is this light?!
No way...
A miracle!
Dai: Crocodine,
you'll pay for this.
First you used
my Grampa for evil,
and then you hurt my friends.
Now you're going down!
What is this infernal light?!
[shrieking]
Popp: Maam!
A mark on his forehead!
What is that?!
[determined roar]
Come on!
Enough. Take this!
Crocodine: Impossible!
[straining grunts]
[shocked gasp]
Come on, Maam.
Hang in there!
Popp...
Wh-What kind of power is this?
I don't really know.
It must be some
hidden ability of his.
As far as I can tell,
that strange mark
responds to Dai's anger.
Popp: And right now,
he must be truly angry.
I think he's about
to explode...
After all the
Dark Army's schemes.
Crocodine [thought]:
Is this Dai's true power...
the power that forced
Lord Hadlar to retreat?
If I lose, then what have
I thrown my pride away for?
I must win even
if it destroys me!
Beast King Anguish Blast!
Oh, no. Dai's
completely unarmed!
Here's a Heal. You should
be able to run now.
Go and help Dai!
Right!
[roaring]
Your body may be like steel,
but at such close range,
there's no chance
that you'll overcome me.
With my greatest attack,
I send you to the afterlife!
Hey - Dai!
Use this!
Do it now, Dai!
Master's special attack!
Beast King Anguish Blast!
Avan Strash!
Crocodine:
"Avan Strash," was it?
An impressive attack.
You... W-win.
[defeated gurgle]
Yes!
Crocodine: [chuckle]
If losing was always my fate,
I wish that I'd fought
you fair and square.
Crocodine?
You, boy!
Crocodine: Well done.
You taught me a lesson...
on how valuable pride really is.
If my defeat is at the
hands of ones such as you,
I have no regrets.
As a matter of fact,
I'm proud.
I was so obsessed with
victory. I was a fool!
This is farewell, Dai.
Don't ever lose.
A Hero must always
remain strong!
[roaring]
[surprised gasps]
[fleeing cries]
Incompetent fool.
How could he lose?
Zaboera [thought]: But what
was that astonishing power
the boy wielded?
And that mark?
I must inform Lord Hadlar
of the situation.
[cheering]
Dai [thought]:
Crocodine...
Dai...
You won.
Narrator: With Beast
King Crocodine defeated,
Dai and his friends
head to Papnica Kingdom.
There, they discover
a terrible truth,
and while they search
for Princess Leona,
the party is ambushed
by undead monsters.
But just then,
a mysterious warrior with
an ominous blade intervenes.
Learn his identity
next time on
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"Onto Papnica Kingdom."